All right.
So now that we are going to start writing the code for the playwright MCP server.
So before we start beginning with the playwright MCP server, the first concept that we need to understand
the playwright itself is if you have ever worked with playwright before, if you're a developer, and
if you are wanting to see what exactly is this playwright?
Playwright is very, very simple.
So just go to the playwright.dev website.
This is like the official website of the playwright I'm talking about over here.
And if you go to the Python version, for example, because we're going to be using Python, and then
if you just go to the documentation, the installation part is very straightforward.
This is the Python install we remember we already did that in our earlier sections of this course.
And in order to run this playwright uh with the python you have to write the test.
So if you just go to the write test over here, you can see that there is this option called as playwright
async API.
We'll be working with the playwright async, then you can use the playwright async API.
We're going to be using the async API for this demonstration.
And for every playwright it comes up with the page a browser.
Um, and also it has got a lot of different capabilities.
So browser is like the, this kind of browser, the entire browser, and the page is the one that you're
seeing over here.
Inside that within the page you can perform all the operations like you can get by roles.
You can perform a click operation, uh, and then you can perform an hover fill focus, press set input
files, select options.
So you can do a lot of different operation with the page uh element which is this page dot this element.
And this is going to return you the locators.
And then the locator.
You can perform all these operation.
Right.
So that's how uh in playwright things works.
So basically in order for you to work with a playwright, you need to have a playwright instance.
You also need to have a browser invocation instance, you need to have a page instance in order to work
with the page, and then you perform the operation on the element or the locators with the click or
send or drag and drop operation.
Because in a page we always do, uh, do this right.
We go and click that operation.
We also go and do the typing operation over here.
And then we get the element out from the page to see how things work.
So all of these things we are going to be basically doing with our toolings capability that we're going
to be writing.
So we're going to see how we can write some tools.
Right.
So the first thing which we're going to do for building our playwright MCP server with Python is name
it, of course, playwright MCP Dot Pi.
And we're going to write the MCP server.
So again this is going to look pretty much exactly similar to what we have over here.
I'm going to go copy paste that over here.
Uh we are going to probably not use the OS, I think, but we are going to use the path and then we
are also going to import a couple of things.
So we're going to import probably the async IO because this playwright itself is async server.
So we're going to use the async operation.
So it's just pretty cool.
And then we also are going to import the base64 which is required.
And I will tell you when it is required.
And then we also need to have a playwright.
So this is this is something that we're going to write right.
And we're going to use the async API, not the sync API.
Like how there was a demonstration in the documentation.
And I'm going to import uh from the async playwright.
We're also going to import uh, what is called as browser.
See that this is important.
I'm going to get the browser.
If I just do control space it's going to show all the different classes we have.
I also need the page because we're going to work with the page.
But if you're going to extend this library to do some other operations like dialogues and downloads
and browser context API testing that you want to be extending this with, you can also call this API
request.
I'm not going to go that far.
I'm not going to really build a complete tool which I have already built, which is available in the
GitHub repository, but I'm just going to leave that as it is, right?
Um.
Pretty cool.
And now once we have all of these, I'm then going to create our MVP server.
You know that how it's going to be easier right.
MCP fast MVP.
And I'm going to say playwright uh MCP server right.
That's the thing.
Cool.
We have defined it.
And then we're going to start this MCP server.
Obviously you know how to do that.
But we need to define the toolings over here.
The tool is going to be to.
The first thing is that you open the browser, which is this kind of browser.
We not to perform any operation on the UI to open the browser.
And then you need to enter the URL which is basically a navigate operation in playwright.
So if you're just going to navigate over here you see that you just do page dot go to operation to navigate
to that particular page.
But we need to get the page instance in order to perform this operation.
For doing that in playwright you need to do use some playwright code to do that operation.
So you need to call the start method of the async playwright that you have got, which is this playwright
class file.
And then you can launch the browser which is chromium browser in our case.
And then you create a new page.
That's when you get the instance of this particular page.
I know it's a lot of thing to digest, but yeah, that's the first thing that we need to set up.
So for that I'm going to first create a simple method.
I'm going to call this as a private method to be handled.
So I'm going to say underscore uh ensure uh maybe ensure browser not ensure playwright but ensure browser
write this method.
So I'm going to say it's writing everything for me automatically.
Look at that.
It's magic.
Um but now what I'm going to I'm going to say ensure the browser and page are initialized.
This is what this particular method is basically going to do.
And over here, um, I'm going to set the global variables of browser page and the playwright instance
over here.
And because I'm going to set this to the global over here, I also need to define this outside like
browser as the browser, which is going to be none.
I'll just set it up.
Similarly, the page I have to set it.
So I'm going to say page as the page which is equal to none as well.
And I need to set the playwright instance uh is equal to none right.
I have to set all of these.
This is very important.
And once I set this now I can set all the values to it.
So I'm going to say if for the first time maybe what if the browser is already open.
So you need to verify if the browser is not none.
Right.
So if the browser is none.
So if it is none, which means it is not initialized.
And if the page is none, which means the page itself is not initialized.
So if both of these are not initialized, which means it is a new instance we're trying to work with.
So I'm going to call the playwright instance is equal to await of the await playwright dot start.
Thanks to I Wrote things for me.
And then we need to set the browser over here which is going to be await playwright instance, which
is this one that we are creating dot chromium dot launch and headless as I'm going to set this to false
because I want the browser to be displayed.
And then I'm going to set the page equal to await browser.
New page.
Amazing.
That's it.
This is going to ensure if the browser is opened or not, if the page is initialized or not.
And then if there is nothing then it's going to go and create a new page and new browser for me.
So this is the place where the browsers are going to be launched for us.
This is the first non tooling method that I have to write.
And once we have this we can then use this method in all the toolings that we are going to be building
in our next lecture of this course.